---
date: 2025-01-27
categories:
    - Review
tags:
    - NUS
    - CS
---

## About CS2106 - Introduction to Operating Systems 📲

**CS2106 NUSMods : [link](https://nusmods.com/courses/CS2106/introduction-to-operating-systems)**

I took CS2106 in **AY2425 Semester 1**, under Prof Jialin Li & Colin Tan 🧸. 

CS2106 is an introductory course that focuses on **how operating systems manage hardware resources and interact with software** 📺. The course explores key concepts such as process scheduling, memory abstraction and management, Inter-process communication, file systems, virtualization, and synchronization mechanisms like semaphores and mutexes. It also introduces low-level programming in C and working with Linux commands and system calls 💡.

Lectures and tutorials are weekly and offline. The lab sessions are biweekly, to submit and verify our lab assignments.
I really enjoy CS2106 contents and lectures, that I always look forward to it every week. I personally find synchronization & memory management very interesting and complicated, since it is hard to verify whether our solution is correct/effective enough 🔫.

The assessments include **lecture quizzes, lab assignments** (usually involving C programming and shell scripting)**, and midterms and finals** 📑. Midterm was open-book (printed), and exam was open-book (printed & digital device, no internet). Assignments can be challenging, but done in pairs. Midterm was relatively easy, but I was disappointed with the exam questions. It was very weird, since the questions are all about time calculations (to fetch memory), and other concepts/theories, like synchronization are not asked at all 😢. Which, I don't think really examines/represents what CS2106 teaches 💔.

This course deepened my appreciation for the intricate workings and complexities of operating systems 🎀. Topics were initially daunting, but the more I learned, the more fascinated I became with how these systems enable the functioning of modern computers that we take for granted 😎.

I personally think **every CS students**, or any students in SOC **should** take this 🫵, it is very fun and you'll learn alot. Overall, **CS2106 is a fantastic module** to take (probably, my fav in first 3 sem)! 💕

**Enjoyment : 4.9/5 🩵**</br>
**Workload : 2-3h/week (2h lecture, 1h tutorial)**</br>
**Grade : A**</br>

