---
date: 2025-01-27
categories:
    - Review
tags:
    - NUS
    - CS
---

## About CS2105 - Introduction to Computer Networks 🛜

**CS2105 NUSMods : [link](https://nusmods.com/courses/CS2105/introduction-to-computer-networks)**

I took CS2105 in **AY2425 Semester 1**, under Prof Zhou Lifeng & Jithin Vachery. 

CS2105 introduces students to the fundamentals of computer networking, explaining how devices communicate in local and global networks. The course covers essential topics such as TCP/IP protocols, HTTP, DNS, routing algorithms, socket programming, and more. 5 network layers model (application, transport, network, link, physical) is used in CS2105 ✅.

The lectures are a mix of pre-recorded videos on Canvas and 2h lecture as review and Q&A sessions. Tutorials are weekly, and the questions are doable (concepts from lectures can be applied directly).

CS2105 has **3 assignments** (involving coding, e.g., implementing socket communication), **quizzes, a midterm, and a final exam**. Both midterm and final exams are open-book 🤩, allowing printed materials but no digital devices. Assignments often include practical programming tasks in C or Python.

I am very new to computer network, and I can say **CS2105 is a nice intro** (not too difficult) for beginner 👌. The contents are easy to digest. Arguably, I think CS2105 is most chill CS mod I've taken in first 3 semesters. CS2105 gave me a much deeper appreciation for how networks operate behind the scenes. The programming assignments and lectures, too, were fun and engaging 😼.

I had no expectation for CS2105 before taking it, however, CS2105 kind of spark my interest in Computer Networks. Whether you're interested in learning how the internet works or even if not, **you'll enjoy CS2105**! (so just take it, the content are very essential too :D) 🔥


**Enjoyment : 4.8/5 🩷**</br>
**Workload : 2-3h/week (2h lecture, 1h tutorial)**</br>
**Grade : A+**</br>

